Proofreading MO Guide (#11605)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/prepare_model/convert_model/Cutting_Model.md

# Cutting Off Parts of a Model  {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Cutting_Model}

> Sometimes, some parts of a model must be removed while the Model Optimizer converts models to the Intermediate Representation. This chapter describes methods of cutting off parts of a model using Model Optimizer command-line options. Model cutting applies mostly to TensorFlow models, but it is also useful for other frameworks. TensorFlow examples are used in this chapter for illustrative purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, it is necessary to remove parts of a model when converting it to OpenVINO IR. This chapter describes how to do it, using Model Optimizer command-line options. Model cutting applies mostly to TensorFlow models, which is why TensorFlow will be used in this chapter's examples, but it may be also useful for other frameworks.
```

## Purpose of Model Cutting

The following examples are the situations when model cutting is useful or even required:

> *   model has pre- or post-processing parts that cannot be translated to existing OpenVINO operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   A model has pre- or post-processing parts that cannot be translated to existing OpenVINO operations.
```

> *   model has a training part that is convenient to be kept in the model but not used during inference.
> *   model is too complex (contains a lot of unsupported operations that cannot be easily implemented as custom layers), so the complete model cannot be converted in one go.
> *   problem with model conversion in Model Optimizer or inference in the OpenVINO™ Runtime occurred. To identify the issue, limit the scope for conversion by iterative search for problematic areas in the model.
> *   single custom layer or a combination of custom layers is isolated for debugging purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   A model has a training part that is convenient to be kept in the model but not used during inference.
*   A model is too complex be converted at once, because it contains a lot of unsupported operations that cannot be easily implemented as custom layers.
*   A problem occurs with model conversion in Model Optimizer or inference in OpenVINO™ Runtime. To identify the issue, limit the conversion scope by iterative search for problematic areas in the model.
*   A single custom layer or a combination of custom layers is isolated for debugging purposes.
```

Model cutting is illustrated with Inception V1. This model is in *`models/research/slim`* repository. [This section](Converting_Model.md) describes pre-work to prepare the model for the Model Optimizer to be ready to proceed with this chapter.

## Default Behavior without --input and --output

The input model is converted as a whole if neither *`--input`* nor *`--output`* command line options are used. All *`Placeholder`* operations in a TensorFlow graph are automatically identified as entry points. The *`Input`* layer type is generated for each of them. All nodes that have no consumers are automatically identified as exit points.

For Inception_V1, there is one *`Placeholder`*: input. If the model is viewed in the TensorBoard, the input operation is easy to find:
 
![Placeholder in Inception V1](../../img/inception_v1_std_input.png)

> There is only one output operation, which is enclosed in a nested name scope *`InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions`*. The *`Reshape`* operation has a full name *`InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions/Reshape_1`*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *`Reshape`* is the only one output operation, which is enclosed in a nested name scope *`InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions`* under full name *`InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions/Reshape_1`*.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The *`Reshape`* is the only output operation, which is enclosed in a nested name scope *`InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions`*, under full name of *`InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions/Reshape_1`*.
```

In the TensorBoard, along with some of its predecessors, it looks as follows:

![TensorBoard with predecessors](../../img/inception_v1_std_output.png)

Convert this model and put the results in a writable output directory:
```sh
mo --input_model inception_v1.pb -b 1 --output_dir <OUTPUT_MODEL_DIR>
```

> (The other examples on this page assume that you first cd to the *`model_optimizer`* directory and add the *`--output_dir`* argument with a directory where you have read/write permissions.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(The other examples on this page assume that you first *`cd`* to the *`model_optimizer`* directory and add the *`--output_dir`* argument with a directory where you have read/write permissions.)
```
Maybe another thing to talk about in whole group, but I think that cmd commands also should be put in *` `*. I think without it they look a little bit out of place.

*   `--input` option accepts a comma-separated list of layer names of the input model that should be treated as new entry points to the model.
*   `--output` option accepts a comma-separated list of layer names of the input model that should be treated as new exit points from the model.

> The `--input` option is required for cases unrelated to model cutting. For example, when the model contains several inputs and `--input_shape` or `--mean_values` options are used, use the `--input` option. It specifies the order of input nodes for correct mapping between multiple items provided in `--input_shape` and `--mean_values` and the inputs in the model. Details on these options are out of scope for this document, which focuses on model cutting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--input` option is required for cases unrelated to model cutting. For example, when the model contains several inputs and `--input_shape` or `--mean_values` options are used, the `--input` option specifies the order of input nodes for correct mapping between multiple items provided in `--input_shape` and `--mean_values` and the inputs in the model. 
```

Model cutting is illustrated with Inception V1. This model is in `models/research/slim` repository. [This section](Converting_Model.md) describes pre-work to prepare the model for Model Optimizer to be ready to proceed with this chapter.

## Default Behavior without --input and --output

The input model is converted as a whole if neither `--input` nor `--output` command line options are used. All `Placeholder` operations in a TensorFlow graph are automatically identified as entry points. The `Input` layer type is generated for each of them. All nodes that have no consumers are automatically identified as exit points.

> For Inception_V1, there is one `Placeholder`: input. If the model is viewed in the TensorBoard, the input operation is easy to find:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Inception_V1, there is one `Placeholder`: input. If the model is viewed in TensorBoard, the input operation is easy to find:
```

 
![Placeholder in Inception V1](../../img/inception_v1_std_input.png)

> The `Reshape` is the only output operation, which is enclosed in a nested name scope `InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions`, under full name of `InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions/Reshape_1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Reshape` is the only output operation, which is enclosed in a nested name scope of `InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions`, under the full name of `InceptionV1/Logits/Predictions/Reshape_1`.
```

> In the TensorBoard, along with some of its predecessors, it looks as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In TensorBoard, along with some of its predecessors, it looks as follows:
```

![TensorBoard with predecessors](../../img/inception_v1_std_output.png)

Convert this model and put the results in a writable output directory:
```sh
mo --input_model inception_v1.pb -b 1 --output_dir <OUTPUT_MODEL_DIR>
```

> (The other examples on this page assume that you first `cd` to the `model_optimizer` directory and add the `--output_dir` argument with a directory where you have read/write permissions.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(The other examples on this page assume that you first go to the `model_optimizer` directory and add the `--output_dir` argument with a directory where you have read/write permissions.)
```

	</edges>
</net>
```

>    As shown in the TensorBoard picture, the original model has more nodes than Intermediate Representation. Model Optimizer has fused batch normalization `InceptionV1/InceptionV1/Conv2d_1a_7x7/BatchNorm` to the convolution `InceptionV1/InceptionV1/Conv2d_1a_7x7/convolution`, and it is not present in the final Intermediate Representation. This is not an effect of the `--output` option, it is usual behavior of Model Optimizer for batch normalizations and convolutions. The effect of the `--output` is that the `ReLU` layer becomes the last one in the converted model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   As shown in the TensorBoard picture, the original model has more nodes than its Intermediate Representation. Model Optimizer has fused batch normalization `InceptionV1/InceptionV1/Conv2d_1a_7x7/BatchNorm` with convolution `InceptionV1/InceptionV1/Conv2d_1a_7x7/convolution`, which is why it is not present in the final model. This is not an effect of the `--output` option, it is the typical behavior of Model Optimizer for batch normalizations and convolutions. The effect of the `--output` is that the `ReLU` layer becomes the last one in the converted model.
```

	</edges>
</net>
```
   `Input` layer is automatically created to feed the layer that is converted from the node specified in `--input`, which is `InceptionV1/InceptionV1/Conv2d_1a_7x7/Relu` in this case. Model Optimizer does not replace the `ReLU` node by the `Input` layer. It produces such Intermediate Representation to make the node the first executable node in the final Intermediate Representation. Therefore, Model Optimizer creates enough `Inputs` to feed all input ports of the node that is passed in `--input`.<br>
Even though `--input_shape` is not specified in the command line, the shapes for layers are inferred from the beginning of the original TensorFlow model to the point, at which the new input is defined. It has the same shape [1,64,112,112] as the model converted as a whole or without cutting off the beginning.

> 2. Cut edge incoming to layer by port number. To specify incoming port, use notation `--input=port:input_node`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Cut the edge incoming to layer by port number. To specify the incoming port, use the following notation `--input=port:input_node`. 
```

> To cut everything before `ReLU` layer, cut edge incoming in port 0 of `InceptionV1/InceptionV1/Conv2d_1a_7x7/Relu` node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To cut everything before `ReLU` layer, cut the edge incoming to port 0 of `InceptionV1/InceptionV1/Conv2d_1a_7x7/Relu` node:
```
